---  
title: "Sat, Oct 23, 1926"  
---  
## Sat, Oct 23, 1926
This morning finds us up and ready to start. This is a nice campground on a corner block 27 blocks from the heart of the city. The city lies on the Mississippi and has a population of 5,000. Lots of negroes here. The Starks Bros.' Nursery one of the largest in the United States is located 5 miles from this city. We were lucky enough to camp on corner, where the men wait for the bus. This is a six wheel tractor bus owned and operated by the Stark Bros for the sole purpose of taking their help to and from work. There was 25 or 30 men in this bus. Don't know how many more they pick up. But had room for many more. Left the camp ground at 7:20. Drove on back into the city. Can't see more than 6 blocks ahead.

Stopped at a filling station for gas and air. While here saw three more Stark Bros busses, but 2 of these were busses for Women. None quite so large as the first one. 91 miles from St. Louis. Left at 7:50. Traveling on US No 61 from here. Had to stop at a rail road crossing just out of town. The bluffs along here are 150 ft high as near as we could judge. These are the highest we have seen. This road took us for a mile right along the Miss. river. This was a wonderful sight. Had a nice level stretch for about 3 miles, then we came into more rolling country, then into hills. But nothing like yesterdays'.

More farming thro here than we have seen since we got in Mo. The corn is fair. Some oats in the shock yet. Growing here just the same as in Illinois. Lots of pears and apples here. Drove along one creek this A.M. that was quite a sight for us. The bottom was layers of flat white rock. Water as clear as a crystal. Drove on into the bluffs again, drove out again into the level just before we struck the town of Eolia. Think this mostly negroes. The name surely is a Negro name at any rate. Stopped and got some groceries. On again 9:55. 35 miles more to pavement. Have had a real wind storm south of Eolia. The corn for a short stretch is completely flat. Up hill and down all the way from Eolia to Flinthill. Lots of field of soy beans and alfalfa thro here. Had to stop along the road to fix the lugs on the hind wheels. Are having rouble to keep them from slipping.

This goes to show we are traveling over rough roads. These roads are natural rock, crushed rock and gravel. Passes a log cabin on our way this morning. Lots of rail fences thro here. We crossed Quiver River, where the corn had been completely submerged. The corn in these fields are worthless. 

11:30 Had to stop along the road, coming up a long grade for a flat tire. When we stopped discovered the other tire was about off. Got dinner while the boys fixed them up. Eat dinner. Started again 12:15.We are one mile from the town of Troy Mo. The children got to see the real Southern Pickinnies while waiting here. Stopped for gas in Troy Mo. On we go. Up hill and down. Country about the same from Troy to Moscow. Detour from here to Old Monroe. Every bridge we have crossed in Missouri has been very narrow. Just room enough for one rig. I think they have been very saving bridge material. The farther south and east we go the poorer gets the corn. Whiz...out goes a tire. Stopped 2:00 

O Boy! This is great. You don't know the half of touring till you have lots of this kind of luck. The kids are making good use of these Missouri stones. Using some ones chicken coop as a target. Tire changes and gone again. 2:20. Lots of fall seeding being done thro this section. We rounded a curve over a bridge and up a steep rocky grade. Got halfway up and pushed into low. It refused to take hold. So here we stalled again. Blocked our wheels. Tightened our low band, gave her a push, hopped in and on we go. The country south of Old Monroe is more level. More farming done thro here. Lots of Jersey cows thro all sections which we have passed thro. Came unto the pavement 41 miles from St. Louis at 2:10. O joy!  We're all glad. This land right thro here lays as nice as any Iowa land. Better farms and things look more prosperous. Bang! Bang! Blow out. We're having a lovely time, believe this or not. This gives me lots of time to jot down all I would like to write. This all happened 20 minutes after we hit the pavement.

Guess we all felt to hilarious over better roads. I have often wondered why some people speak of Missouri as misery. I know the reason now. Things all patched and ready to ramble again 2:25. It is sprinkling again. Lots of cars on this road. This is paved clear thro to Kansas City. Stopped at the first filling station, fixed up some tires.

Started on 3:15. This road runs right along the railroad track. Up hill and down just the same way only we're on pavement and don't notice it quite so much. This has been a nice drive to St. Charles. The farm land thro here is about the same. Drove into the camp ground at 5:30. Set up tent, got supper. Popped corn. Spent the evening laughing over our days drive. Went to bed. Steady rain most of the night. Camped within 1/2 mile of the Missouri river. Could see both the railroad and drive bridge. These are large 5 span bridges. We sure do enjoy these sights.

