---  
title: "Thu, Oct 28, 1926"  
---  
## Thu, Oct 28, 1926
This day fines us ready for another sight seeing day in the city. Mr. Carnes took the children, Essie and I in his Nash car, the boys took the Ford and away we went to the Chain of rocks. This is on the Mississippi river, out from the city about 12 miles. It is where the water is purified for use in the city.

We drove up on the main heights to take a look over all. This was a very pleasing sight. We could see where the Missouri and the Mississippi came together. This water is pumped from the river into large vats or tanks. Lime and iron and other purifying chemicals are added to these. We could see where a large stream of lime and another stream of iron were running into the vats to be carried on into the water. We went into the pumping station, and of all the wonderful pieces of machinery we beheld. To give you some idea of the size and capacity of these pumps will give a few figures we got at the station. Each pump will deliver 30 million gallons of water in 24 hours. Each pump is 375 horse power. These were installed in 1895 by the Allis Chalmers Co. They are of the crank and fly wheel type. We stood and watched these pumps while in action. Down below us 45 to 50 feet was a large room containing machinery to operate these pumps. There is eight in all, but not all are used at one time. They can use one or any number that is needed at any time. There are three of these pumping stations. This is the number of gallons of water pumped at each station a week. Chain of Rocks 840,790,000. Bissels Point 496,118,020. Baden 314,75,600. This gives one some idea of the amount of water it takes for use in this city. This water is run thro these purifying tanks, then run into a large outside tank, there is 8 of these 28835 rods in length and width and 8 ft deep. Each one contains different chemicals and is let from one tank to the other during the process. One can easily see the difference in each tank of water. It is finally pumped into a clearing station before it is forced into the city for use. No one can realize the vast importance of these purifying plants until they see this awful muddy water that comes from the Mississippi. We were very fortune to be there at a time when they were cleaning one of these receiving tanks, It is amazing, the mud and sediment that collects in these tanks. The mud was from four to five feet deep in places. A part of this tank had been cleaned. They had tractors and teams busy at work removing this mud. These are cleaned ever 6 months. The men that invented this chemicals for purifying were brothers. They have worked so long and unceasingly at this one thing that both have lost their mind. It surely seems a pity that when one works so faithfully for the welfare of others and accomplishes such a wonderful fete as this one is, not to be able to enjoy the reward for such a service.

We have had a wonderful time and have learned a lot. We left here and drove out to camp for dinner. Cleaned up things and came back to Jacks. On our way home we got a chance to see the city after it was all lit up. This is one thing St. Louis has failed on. It has very poor lighting system. Have electric lights and some gas lights. A man lights these gas lights about 4:30 in the afternoon, and turns them out again in the morning. New electric lights are being installed, so they expect to have better service soon. Traffic is terrible in this city after 5:00. This is the time of day when peoples are ready to go home from work. Was glad to get home safely.

This has been an unlucky day for people in this flat. One of the motormen that stays here, ran over a negro woman tonight about 6:00. Did not kill her instantly but they say she cannot live. Clarence and Jack went down town and while there, Jack was trying to help some of the boys from his street car run remove a wrecked auto from the street. It had been hit by a street car. In some way jack got his right leg pinned in between the car and a waterplug. He came very near having it broke. Has got a very bad bruise.

