---  
title: "Tue, Nov 9, 1926"  
---  
## Tue, Nov 9, 1926
Left Arkadelphia at 8:15. This is not a very large town. About the size of Tama. Didn't rain but very little last night. Drove on over a very flat low little stretch. Quite a lot of cotton grown thro here. The land is better not quite so stony. Buildings and fences are better. They have a very large lumber mill here at the little town of Curtis, 10 miles from Arkadelphia. Lots of timber in places. Most all timber between Curtis and Smithton, 6 miles distant. Drove on to the town of Gurdon. This is a good size railroad town. Has 3 or 4 different roads crossing it. Here we could see them loading, both cotton and lumber on the freight cars.

We followed the railroad for about a mile and a half, then we drove into the timber. This was a fine drive. Good roads all rock gravel. Real dense timber. No house of any kind. The road is winding and one can see just far enough ahead to see if another car is coming. Have passed a good many cars coming our way. (We never pass them the other way, we let them do that.) Drove on till we crossed the little Missouri River. Here we came into a more open country. More people live here. Little patches of corn and cotton but both very poor. The land here is very stoney. Not much grass, mostly weeds.

Every one that keeps a cow pastures it on the road. Don't know how many we have passed this morning. Drove on into the town of Prescott. Stopped here and got some oil. Drove on thro the same kind of country for 10 or 12 miles. Eat dinner. 1 mile west of Hope Ark. On again 11:00. Drove on thro a low stretch of country. This is very low, lots of swamps and bridges. A little farming in spots on the level.

Cotton and corn are the main produce. Drove on to Fulton Ark. Here we had to cross the ferry over the Red River. This is well named. The water is an red as tho it had dye in it. This is caused by the red clay. It cost us $1.00 to ferry this river. On our boat was one truck beside ours and 4 touring cars. This ferry was pulled with a Fordson tractor. They had this built inside of a house boat. Kenneth has worried about this ferry ever since he found out we had to cross one. After leaving the river we drove almost a mile on a grade. In some places it was 25 or 30 feet high. Had to drive thro lots of loose gravel this afternoon. This makes dangerous driving. This country is more level and better soil. More acres of cotton. More Negroes live in this section. Houses are smaller and not se well kept. We have noticed it is this way in every cotton district. We are 8 miles from Texarkana. This is on the Texas Arkansas line.

Country about the same all the way to the Texas line. More and better pastures this last 8 miles. Stopped in Texarkana for gas. This town is like St. Louis. Two cities on the line. One in one state and one in the other. This is a nice clean city. Grass is green. Flowers in bloom everywhere. Drove on for 23 miles over pavement. Lots of nice new houses on this road. About the same all along. Pulled into camp at New Boston Texas, 5:30.

