---  
title: "Fri, Nov 20, 1926"  
---  
## Fri, Nov 20, 1926
Started this morning at 7:20. Gasoline here is 24 cents. Demings is not a very large town. Not as large as we expected. It is not a very well kept place either. Mostly all mexican. We drove 22 miles to the town of Gage and have seen nothing worth mentioning. Just prairie or desert which ever one would care to call it. Guess it must be about the same, as near as we have been able to find out it is. We see a few cattle grazing of and on.

Railway runs along the road here. It is the Southern Pacific. Have good graveled roads. If a person depended on wood to do their cooking thro these sections, am afraid he would have to go hungry, as wood is very scarce. There is a lot of brushy bushes here but they are green and have such thorns on them a person would not be able to handle them for wood.

Along the railway fences (these are mostly made with railway ties) you can see where people have split of part of the tops of every post. (We have had our share of these too) If one was caught in this act they be heavily fined. But guess there is not much danger, as the only living soul you see is some tourist like ourselves. They go and come. About the same number going both ways. We drove on and on.

We can see the mountains away in the distants, that form the continental divide. Just as far as we can see it is one continual chain of mountains. A frieght train passed us going east. It was pulling 112 empty cars. This is mostly all one frieght thro here. Going west you don't see such long trains, as it is most up grade. But they sure do take a long string going back east.

Drove on into Lordsburg Mex. Here we stopped for dinner 12:00. Drove 61 miles this morning in this desolate section. Started on again 12:30. From here we have a winding road across to Duncan 38 miles. They are paving a road straight thro, but it is not open for travel yet. This road is cut up and rough, but no worse than some we have had. Drove on and on. We have finally come to a stretch that we can call desert. This stretch is what we all had pictured in our minds the desert would be like. Now we are all satisfied we have seen the desert. Most all sand here, nothing only a very short grass growing here, and that just in spots. Not a tree or bush. The road is not quite what we expected it to be. We thot the sand would be deep and loose.

The road has a hard bottom most of the way. We drove thro 25 miles of this. Then we came into a stretch where there was a lot of century plants and sage brush. These century plants are queer things. I guess it is impossible to kill one. When they areyoung they look something like our iris plants, their leaves are narrow and longer and have a sharp needle. As the plant grows older the tops stays about the same way out the root will grow up out of ground, just like beets will some time. This root is about 12 or 14 inches in circumference. The older they grow the taller they get. Have seen them 6 feet high. After they get so old they will bloom this will be one long stalks that shoots out of the top. It has a flower shaped like a bill, makes me think of flower on the gladiola. Don't know what color they are as all we have seen were dry. These shoot new plants from the roots. The root is almost as large as the stalk. You can see this running along the ground where the sand have blown off of them. These look like old dead logs lying on the ground. If you did not look close you would take it for a log.

We stopped in the brush to hunt Jack rabbits. You could see a rabbit most anywhere, but could not get a shot at them as they do not set still long enough to get an aim at them. We did not have any shot gun shells so we were out of luck.

It is awful hot out here. When ever a car passes we sure get the benefit of all their dust. We came to a fork in the road. No markings on this road so were undecided which was the way.

Inquired our way from some folks that came that way we thot we should go. Were headed the right way. So on we go. The road is full of chuck holes and washes. We had to drive slow. 8 miles from Duncan, we crossed the Mex. Arizona line. We came into the mountains here. These are the mts we could see so many miles back. These are in the divide. This road winds round very sharp curves. The road is awful narrow. Had to stop for a little engine trouble. Soon had it fixed and on we go. We had 4 or 5 miles of up hill then down, came out onto the level just before we reached the town of Duncan Ariz. We drove into camp here. This is only a small place. It is right in the foot hills of the mountains. People here are mostly all white. Very few Mexicans.

There is a small river running thro here so they do a little farming. Just small acreages. Every one has to irragate. They have a cotton gin here. The hills and mountains are barren. another party on this camp ground with us tonight. We think it is warm here tonight.

