---  
title: "Thu, Nov 25, 1926"  
---  
## Thu, Nov 25, 1926
This surely does not seem like Thanksgiving to us. We could sooner believe it was the Fourth, it is so warm. We started at 7:20. This valley is all farmed. They have 2,000 acres of head lettuce thry the valley. Doesn't this sound fishy. Nevertheless it is true. Japs at work everywhere. Some hoeing, some plowing and in other parts they were picking and packing. This all belongs to a company. They work this a good bit like the sweet corn at home. It isure is some sight. On the other side of our road are acres of grapes.

We stopped in Holtville for gas .20 cents. Drove on thru this valley all forenoon. Lots of stock, chickens, lettuce and fruit. Stopped about 7 miles east of Kane Spring, Calif. to fix a rod again. Got dinner while the boys were fixing it.

Sun sure shines hot out here on the desert. A shade is a blessing here. We had been told that California Sun Shine was a scorcher but never would believe it till today. Drove on at 1:20. Drove on to some public scales to weigh our rig. The boys have been crazy to know just how much this has weighed. So thot we would find out free of charge. Clarence had just got it weighed when some fellow stepped around and charge him 25 cents. They thot it 25 cents worth of satisfaction anyway weighed 4900 lbs. with out Clarence and Kenneth.

After leaving here we came into a strip of desert again. We drove for 45 miles over real desert. Off to our north lay the Salton Sea. We drove all afternoon in sight of this. Came within a short distance of the shore of it at the west end. It has no inlet nor no outlet. Its water supply comes from springs. It is a great game resort. Sign up along the way about duck hunting. Charge $3.00 a day for shooting duck. They are so thick they claim you can't help but hit some. We were just 5 miles from where they were so thick, but was afraid if Grover went we'd be minus another gun. 

After we left the sea, we came in to another valley. Here we passed great orange groves with yellow ones and green ones on the same trees. Grapes, dates, asparagus and onions all growing here acres and acres of them. This is at the foot of Mts. We can drive along and see spots of desert, drive a little ways further and see fields of splendid crops. This is where it has been claimed and where it has not. You'll never believe this till you see it with your own eyes. It sounds just like a fairy tale. It is funny what a little water will do. To see the soil you would say it was impossible. It is such very fine sand. This now is called the Coachella Valley.
Lots of dairying done thro here. This is a great date country. Fresh dates 15 cents a pound.

The sun has dropped behind the mountains so we will have to find a roost. Drove on to the little town of Coachella and found a campground 6:00. This is not a very large place. Mostly Japs and Mexicans. 6 other parties on the ground tonight.

