---  
title: "Sat, Nov 27, 1926"  
---  
## Sat, Nov 27, 1926
Rained like everything last night. This was like one of Iowa's down pours, only it was not accompanied with any thunder or lighting. We got things straightened around and on at 8:45. From here we have another up grade clime of 3 miles. Deep canyons and deep cuts all along here. Fruit all the way. Great oil wells in the distance. Fruit packing company in every town. Drove on to Anaheim Calif.

This is a nice little city. Stopped here for a few things. We drove on again. Country all about the same. Fruit trees everywhere. Finally came into sight of Long Beach. Here we had the first look at oil wells. Hundreds of them so close together you could not count them. This is what they call Signal Hill. 

Have 12 miles yet till we reach Long Beach. No one knows how slow this old Ford is traveling now. Reached our destination at 12:30. Everybody is happy. Eat our dinner and visited. We just had to go down and take a look at the old Pacific. So about 3:30 Bernard took Mother, Clarence, Kenneth,Mildred and I down to the beach. Here we beheld a wonderful sight. Did not realize it could make such a roaring noise. It sounds just like a raging wind storm back there. Clarence nor I neither one think we would care much for the ocean. It is wonderful, but there is some thing about it that makes one feel as tho it was such a big monsterous thing, and was really something you need fear. You can stand and watch the breakers, dash them selves into waves and come rolling into the edge of the beach. It is all a fine view. Great houses are built right on the beach but I would not care for any of them.

We staid a little while then came back. The folks are about 6 miles from the Beach. Had our supper and ready for Bed. We are all glad we do not have to think of traveling any further for awhile.

We have had a most wonderful time. Fine weather and very good roads for such a great distance. Have traveled 2,809 miles. Have seen real good country and some real poor country. So taking all in all we are very glad we did not miss the one chance of a life time. What little we have seen of California is wonderful. 

Some of these little items that these books contain will sound pretty stretchy but if the opportunity ever come to any of you, take this trip and see it all with your own eyes.

(You know seeing is believing.) Amen.

